.. note::

    Hello, welcome to the SunFounder Raspberry Pi & Arduino & ESP32 Enthusiasts Community on Facebook! Dive deeper into Raspberry Pi, Arduino, and ESP32 with fellow enthusiasts.

    **Why Join?**

    - **Expert Support**: Solve post-sale issues and technical challenges with help from our community and team.
    - **Learn & Share**: Exchange tips and tutorials to enhance your skills.
    - **Exclusive Previews**: Get early access to new product announcements and sneak peeks.
    - **Special Discounts**: Enjoy exclusive discounts on our newest products.
    - **Festive Promotions and Giveaways**: Take part in giveaways and holiday promotions.

    ðŸ‘‰ Ready to explore and create with us? Click [|link_sf_facebook|] and join today!

Lesson 9 Relay
=====================

**Introduction**
--------------------

As we may know, relay is a device which is used to provide connection
between two or more points or devices in response to the input signal
applied. In other words, relays provide isolation between the controller
and the device as devices may work on AC as well as on DC. However, they
receive signals from a microcontroller which works on DC henceÂ 
requiring a relay to bridge the gap. Relay is extremely useful when you
need to control a large amount of current or voltage with small
electrical signal.

**Components**
-------------------

.. image:: media_arduino/image171.png
    :width: 800
    :align: center

.. image:: media_arduino/image188.png
    :width: 800
    :align: center

**Experimental Principle**
----------------------------

**Relay**
^^^^^^^^^^^

There are 5 parts in every relay:

1.Â **Electromagnet** â€“ It consists of an iron core wounded by coil of wires. When electricity is passed through, it becomes magnetic. Therefore, it is called electromagnet.

2.Â **Armature** â€“ The movable magnetic strip is known as armature. When current flows through them, the coil is it energized thus producing a magnetic field which is used to make or break the normally open (N/O) or normally close (N/C) points. And the armature can be moved with direct current (DC) as well as alternating current (AC).

3.Â **Spring**Â â€“ When no currents flow through the coil on the electromagnet, the spring pulls the armature away so the circuit cannot be completed.

4. Set of electricalÂ **contacts**Â â€“ There are two contact points:

* Normally open â€“ connected when the relay is activated, and disconnected when it is inactive.

* Normally close â€“ not connected when the relay is activated, and connected when it is inactive.

5. **Molded frame** â€“ Relays are covered with plastic for protection.

**Working of Relay**
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The working principle of relay is simple. When power is supplied to the
relay, currents start flowing through the control coil; as a result, the
electromagnet starts energizing. Then the armature is attracted to the
coil, pulling down the moving contact together thus connecting with the
normally open contacts. So the circuit with the load is energized. Then
breaking the circuit would a similar case, as the moving contact will be
pulled up to the normally closed contacts under the force of the spring.
In this way, the switching on and off of the relay can control the state
of a load circuit.Â 

.. image:: media_arduino/image108.jpeg
    :width: 800
    :align: center

**Transistor**
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: media_arduino/image109.jpeg
    :width: 150
    :align: center

Transistor is a semiconductor device that controls current by
current. It functions by amplifying weak signal to larger amplitude
signal and is also used for non-contact switch. A transistor is a
three-layer structure composed of P-type and N-type semiconductors. They
form the three regions internally. The thinner in the middle is the base
region; the other two are both N-type or P-type ones â€“ the smaller
region with intense majority carriers is the emitter region, when the
other one is the collector region. This composition enables the
transistor to be an amplifier.

From these three regions, three poles are generated respectively, which
are base (b), emitter (e), and collector (c). They form two P-N
junctions, namely, the emitter junction and collection junction. The
direction of the arrow in the transistor circuit symbol indicates that
of the emitter junction. Based on the semiconductor type, transistors
can be divided into two groups, the NPN and PNP ones. From the
abbreviation, we can tell that the former is made of two N-type
semiconductors and one P-type and that the latter is the opposite. See
the figure below.Â 

.. image:: media_arduino/image110.png
    :width: 800
    :align: center

When a High level signal goes through an NPN transistor, it is
energized. But a PNP one needs a Low level signal to manage it. Both
types of transistor are frequently used for contactless switches, just
like in this experiment.

**Principle:**
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Connect a 1K resistor (for current limiting when the transistor is
energized) to pin 8 of the SunFounder Uno board, then to an NPN
transistor whose collector is connected to the coil of a relay and
emitter to GND; connect the normally open contact of the relay to an LED
and then GND. Therefore, when a High level signal is given to pin 8, the
transistor is energized, thus making the coil of the relay conductive.
Then its normally open contact is closed, and the LED will light up.
When pin 8 is given a Low level, the LED will stay dim.

**Function of the freewheeling diode**:Â 

When the voltage input changes from High (5V) to Low (0V), the
transistor changes from saturation (three working conditions:
amplification, saturation, and cut-off) to cut-off, the current in the
coil suddenly has no way to flow through. At this moment, without the
freewheeling diode, a counter-electromotive force (EMF) will be
generated at the ends of the coil, with positive at the bottom and
negative at the top, a voltage higher than 100V. This voltage plus that
from the power at the transistor are big enough to burn it. Therefore,
the freewheeling diode is extremely important in discharging this
counter-EMF in the direction of the arrow in the figure above, so the
voltage of the transistor to GND is no higher than +5V (+0.7V).

In this experiment, when the relay closes, the LED will light up; when
the relay opens, the LED will go out.

The schematic diagram:

.. image:: media_arduino/image218.png
    :width: 800
    :align: center

**Experimental Procedures**
-----------------------------

**Step 1:** Build the circuit

**Step 2:** Open the code file.

**Step 3:** Select the **Board** and **Port.**

**Step 4:** Upload the sketch to the board.

.. image:: media_arduino/image219.png
    :align: center


Now, send a High level signal, and the relay will close and the LED will
light up; send a low one, and it will open and the LED will go out. In
addition, you can hear a tick-tock caused by breaking the normally close
contact and closing the normally open one.

.. image:: media_arduino/image113.jpeg
    :width: 800
    :align: center

**Code**
------------

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src=https://create.arduino.cc/editor/sunfounder01/789bda6b-5686-4ca5-b2a7-e89f6331a1ca/preview?embed style="height:510px;width:100%;margin:10px 0" frameborder=0></iframe>

.. code-block:: arduino

    void loop()

    {

        digitalWrite(relayPin, HIGH); //drive relay closure conduction

        delay(1000);                  //wait for a second

        digitalWrite(relayPin, LOW);  //drive the relay is closed off

        delay(1000);                  //wait for a second

    }

The code in this experiment is simple. First, set relayPin as HIGH level
and the LED connected to the relay will light up. Then set relayPin as
LOW level and the LED goes out.

